# commonlabs ID TypeScript guidelines

This is a living document outlining the styleguide for JavaScript/TypeScript projects within the commonlabs ID umbrella. Our styleguide is mostly derived from the [Airbnb JavaScript styleguide](https://github.com/airbnb/javascript), with changes made to accomodate TypeScript projects.

## Naming

### Keep filenames clear and concise

Use filenames that are as clear and standard as possible. Strive for names no longer than 2-3 words, with unabbreviated phrases.

- **Good example:** `findPathOptions.ts`
- **Bad example:** `fpOpts.ts`

### Test files

All test files must be written either separately inside a `__tests__/` folder, or within the same folder with a `.test.{js,ts,tsx}` suffix.

### Autogenerated files

All auto-generated files must be written either separately inside a `__generated__/` folder, or within the same folder with a `.generated.{js,ts,tsx}` suffix.

> Make sure to ignore these files in your TSLint/Prettier config.

## Style

### Semicolons

Yes.

```ts
// Bad example
const maxThreshold = 25

// Good example
const maxThreshold = 25;
```

### Trailing comma

It is recommended to include a trailing comma in multiline array/object statements. This will lead to cleaner git diffs.

```js
// Bad example
const hero = {
  firstName: 'Ada',
  lastName: 'Lovelace',
  birthYear: 1815,
  superPower: 'computers'
};

// Good example
const hero = {
  firstName: 'Ada',
  lastName: 'Lovelace',
  birthYear: 1815,
  superPower: 'computers',
};
```

> Leaving the trailing comma on used to be a problem with legacy JavaScript, but ES6 no longer has that issue. Also, tools like Babel automatically removes the additional comma when compiling to older JavaScript.

## Types

### Avoid `any`

The whole point of TypeScript is to be more specific than this. So when you can, try to replace `any` with a more specific type declaration, or use `unknown` to force explicit type-checking of external types.

### Prefer `undefined` over `null`.

When dealing with code that uses `null` (e.g. in HTML selectors or Redux), these should be kept isolated using selectors.

### Use `// @ts-ignore` comment to ignore type errors

If a type error cannot be fixed for some reason, put a `// @ts-ignore` comment above the line with an explanation.

```ts
// @ts-ignore: doThing() api is changed on version 3.0 but the typings haven't been updated yet
const thing = doThing(one, two);
```

> Note that these should be treated as TODO items, since they're type errors that should be fixed next time there's a chance.

### Use PascalCase when declaring types.

```ts
// Bad example
type responseObject = {}

// Good example
type ResponseObject = {}
```

## Functions

### Declare function argument type

The type of a function's arguments must be declared, even if it's `any`.

```ts
// Bad example
function add(a, b) {
  return a + b;
}

// Good example
function add(a: number, b: number) {
  return a + b;
}
```

## Interfaces

### Use PascalCase when declaring interfaces.

```ts
// Bad example
interface checkoutButtonProps {}

// Good example
interface CheckoutButtonProps {}
```

### Don't use `I` as a prefix when declaring interfaces.

This convention is a leftover from early-day TS when people who mainly do C# started trying out TS, and is generally frowned upon nowadays, especially in frontend TS code.

We avoid prefixing interfaces with `I` specifically in the frontend.

```ts
// Bad example
interface ICheckoutButtonProps {}

// Good example
interface CheckoutButtonProps {}
```

## Enums

### Use PascalCase when declaring enums.

```ts
// Bad example
enum botStates {}

// Good example
enum BotStates {}
```

### Avoid `const` enums

Tools like Babel [don't support this syntax](https://babeljs.io/docs/en/babel-plugin-transform-typescript.html#caveats). Use regular enums instead, or just use a plain old JS object.
