GENERAL.md, before:

# commonlabs ID general guidelines

## Conduct

All projects within the commonlabs ID organisation use a unified Code of Conduct, available at [CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md). It is based on the Contributor Covenant, and it boils down to these rules:

- Be excellent to each other.
- Do not be sexist, racist, homophobic, transphobic, etc.
- Do not use sexual imagery or language.
- Do not troll or harass other people.
- Do not publish personal information ("dox").

Failure to comply by any of the standards outlined here will result in repercussions. Do not break the rules.

## Contributing

Projects within commonlabs ID have a wide variety of contributors from all backgrounds.

### Volunteers

Regular contributors to any project are eligible to become "volunteers", and will earn the Volunteers role on the commonlabs ID Discord server, as well as membership under the teams which they contribute to. This will be vetted by the staff of commonlabs ID.

Volunteers can also elect themselves to be the point person of certain projects. This will earn them a specialised role on the Discord server.

## Licensing

All projects within the blvd group should be licensed under the [Apache 2.0 License](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0). When referring to the copyright owner, "commonlabs ID" should be used.

## Branding

We are in the process of writing proper branding guidelines, and will publish it in the near future. But for now, the correct form of capitalisation for our organisation name is **commonlabs ID** (or **commonlabs**).

Commit message:

added link to general guidelines, and notice for existing projects

GENERAL.md, after:

# commonlabs ID general guidelines

## Conduct

All projects within the commonlabs ID organisation use a unified Code of Conduct, available at [CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md). It is based on the Contributor Covenant, and it boils down to these rules:

- Be excellent to each other.
- Do not be sexist, racist, homophobic, transphobic, etc.
- Do not use sexual imagery or language.
- Do not troll or harass other people.
- Do not publish personal information ("dox").

Failure to comply by any of the standards outlined here will result in repercussions. Do not break the rules.

## Contributing

Projects within commonlabs ID have a wide variety of contributors from all backgrounds.

### Volunteers

Regular contributors to any project are eligible to become "volunteers", and will earn the Volunteers role on the commonlabs ID Discord server, as well as membership under the teams which they contribute to. This will be vetted by the staff of commonlabs ID.

Volunteers can also elect themselves to be the point person of certain projects. This will earn them a specialised role on the Discord server.

## Licensing

All projects within the blvd group should be licensed under the [Apache 2.0 licence](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0). When referring to the copyright owner, "commonlabs ID" should be used.

We offer leniency for smaller libraries, allowing them to use the [MIT licence](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

### Note for existing projects

If you have existing projects that were created before the formation of commonlabs ID, or existing projects that are inducted into the commonlabs ID umbrella, feel free to continue using your existing licences. However, if it's a project with a larger scope than a library, we **strongly urge** you to replace your licences to the Apache licence within a year of being included in the commonlabs ID umbrella.

You may also keep any existing copyright names, regardless of your choice of licence.

## Branding

We are in the process of writing proper branding guidelines, and will publish it in the near future. But for now, the correct form of capitalisation for our organisation name is **commonlabs ID** (or **commonlabs**).
